The next thing we're gonna add to
this small library is linting, so
this is static analysis to make sure that
we're using good patterns and
enforcing code style.
So we already have es lint installed as a
dev dependency, but you could install that
now if you have not done so already and
let me close out all these files.
So, what we need is an es lint
setup to who here is configured,
who in the class has
configured es lint before for
a project, couple people,
but half the class.
So those of you who haven't done this yet
yes lint has some great
functionality out of the box.
But particularly if you're
working with react or
if you're working with TypeScript,
or if you're working with view,
you need to add a bunch of plugins and
it's not just simply just install this one
package I don't advise that you use
this specific code in your app.
But what I do want you to see is
instead of relying on an if else,
combined with this type guard
that returns a Boolean,
now where we're defining a different type,
a different kind of type guard where and
in the notes of the way I would
like you to answer these questions.
And I'll go through just as
I've written down there, so
we want to check syntax and find problems.
I don't wanna enforce code style because
I typically rely on something like
prettier for that.
I feel like prettier is a good,
nice, dedicated tool that does
a great job at solving that problem and
that problem alone.
So I want es lint out of get out of
the business of semi colons and tabs and
things like that let prettier handle that
but that's my personal opinion, all right.
What types of modules does your project
use, well, really none of these
We're certainly writing TypeScript, so
it doesn't seem like JavaScript, right?
And we're not writing common
jass although we're compiling,
that's our output, but
it's not we're not writing.
So none of these and
which framework does your project use, so
we've got react and view but
I would say none of these.
Do we use TypeScript surprised
the answer's yes, try not to be shocked
and we'll say we're using that, so
we're using node, not a browser.
And I would like my config file to be in
JSON And
then this is not ideal,
I wish it had better support for yarn.
But it's gonna install them via NPM and
we're gonna have to like, do a little work
around here, it's not a big deal, but
it would be great if it
could handle yard as well.
So I'm gonna say yes to this question and
here's npm doing its thing.
So if I had answered no,
I would have had to copy this line and
make the appropriate modification to
my package JSON, and then run yarn.
I'm kind of letting it do its thing here,
because I want the package JSON
handled for me automatically.
And I'm just gonna rerun yarn,
so it updates its lock file.
So let's check our package JSON,
we see these two things have been added
which is great, TypeScript ESLint seems
like TypeScript support for ESLint, right?
Unfortunately, we have
this package lock thing,
I'm just going to delete this cuz
having to lock files is a bad idea.
They use totally different methods for
resolving the right exact
dependency version.
So even if you do have both of
those now NPM lock file and
yarn lock file,
they won't agree with each other.
Especially for a big project, they will
definitely not agree with each other, so
you don't want to have those two things.
They are not equal to each other,
all right now I just need to run yarn.
So that this lock file thing is updated,
it should turn green in
a moment once it's done
A little bit of a workaround, but not
certainly not the worst tech all right,
so now we have ESLint installed, so
let's look at our EsLintRC.json file.
So this is sort of set up in a basic way,
we're using ECMA version 12 which is this,
yes 2021, that seems a little
bit too modern for my taste.
It's like next year's JavaScript,
I'm going to go with 2018
because that's the same.
That gives us async and await what
the hell I'll leave it modern and
we'll see if we run into problems.
But you certainly something you wanna
think about, especially as we start,
I don't think we're touching on
any really modern features here.
I probably will make
a difference in our case, but
give this some consideration, right?
Because we've got multiple places
where we're stating the version of
things that we're expecting to use, right,
we're saying I want to develop on node 12.
You could have had an engines
object in your package JSON that
says I support node greater than 10.
And then your TS config,
potentially you could have this lib thing,
this lib option where you'd say,
I wanna support es 2018.
But don't like bust me if
I try to use as 2019, so
you have many places where you're stating
the language level that you wanna allow.
You just got to make sure that you're
not permitting things you don't
intend to permit.
We talk about this, so yes,
lint recommended that's
a very basic set of rules.
And then this rule TypeScript ESLint,
recommended is some
TypeScript specific basics that
are very cheap to evaluate.
There is an additional one that
I wanna add which is recommended
requiring Type checking, I hope I
spelled that right, let me make sure.
Looks right, so
what I'm doing here is by default,
we're sort of lending our typescript
in a way that doesn't require
that we make sure everything
lines up with everything else.
That's what you get out of the box and
I'm opting into additional linting rules
that require more type information.
They're more expensive and
I'm opting in and for a small library,
it totally makes sense to do this.
We're gonna add some rules here,
really I'm gonna enable one prefer const,
all right.
And this I know their
opinions about constant let
me give you my reasoning for
why I prefer const.
TypeScript will make the safest possible
assumption sorry the strictest possible
assumption that it can make safely.
So if you say const x equals Mike,
it will say well, you can never reassign
this, this is an immutable value type.
So it's gonna say,
the type of x is actually Mike,
it's not just an arbitrary string,
it's this string literal.
It's exactly the string Mike
no other strings allowed, so
const behaves differently
in terms of type inference.
And it's also more convenient when
working with type cards because
once you give const of value.
You can do things like make assertions
on it and use type guards and
narrow it down and
the compiler understands that you can't
switch things around,
like once you validated a const.
If you're unable to change, it can
assume that you're getting more and
more specific and more focused down.
If that were a let variable declaration,
well other code that you write,
like if you pass this value
into other functions or
like there's the potential to mutate it,
and so on.
There are fewer assumptions
that can be made,
because more is possible with a lead.
So that's why I like using const
whenever possible with TypeScript, so
I'm going to turn that on.
And I'll say, look, if I'm in a case
where it's possible to use const,
let's use it and I will turn off
some things that are enabled by
default because our compiler
is handling it for us.
So no one used veirs is off as is no
unused params let the compiler do that
job, I don't need yes lint
to also be doing that job.
It's literally gonna give me errors
where I already have errors and
I only need one, okay.
This next step is going to feel
slightly convoluted, but I promise,
there is method to my madness, we're
going to create another tsconfig file.
And it's called tsconfigEs Lint.JSON,
here's why,
I the way I'm setting this
library up the tests and
the code being tested, are very separate.
Like just is allowed for
use in the tests only,
not in the source folder,
we have to have that separation.
But es lint wants one TypeScript
configuration that includes all of
the code that I want lint it so I have
to give it one that will make it happy.
This is a Ts config for
ESLint specifically.
Now I wanna make sure that I'm not taking
on additional maintenance burden here.
So I'm gonna say just extend
from my normal tsconfig and
the only thing that I wanna say is allowed
Is, we're gonna say types
jest is allowed and
I can include both my source folder.
And tests, so the benefit we get here is,
I can kinda forget about this file now
cuz it's inheriting a lot from the,
the real test config let's
call it the real one.
Going back to my es lint
config here real quick,
which is on the bottom, one little
thing I have to add I have to tell.
Yes, lint that it's to use this Ts config.
The only reason I need
this here it's because of
the rules I opted into on line 9.
We want those rules that use
type checking information and
we have to tell es lint what
it is to use when considering.
Like, which file defines
the project to be limited and
in this case it's that
specialty is configured.
All right now, the code for
our tests which we have yet
to create but I'll tell you
where they're going to end up.
You can say files and
here we can say there'll be
in tests.starts,
so all the TypeScript folder,
TypeScript files in tests
and then end jest just true.
And we can also say no true,
which would be useful if we were like
reading fixture data from a file or
something, then we can use the FS module.
No harm allowing node stuff
to happen in our test suite,
make sure you look at
this path carefully tests
All right, the time has come for
us to see if this works,
so the easiest way I know of to
see if my linter works is to do
something that my linter is
going to bark at me about.
And in this case,
let's take advantage of the throw
away enabled, let's see if we get that.
There we go, so prefer const,
this is evidence that yes,
lint is working and it's is using
a rule that I had to turn on.
So I believe that our linter
is working at this point and
let's actually try to run it, yarn lint.
One problem And
that's the problem we hoped we'd find,
linting works I'm gonna
change it back real quick